[Music]
question for you would you like to have
a mug of coffee or a cup of coffee have
you brought a mushroom or a toadstool
from the forest did you have a macaron
or a macaroon with lunch yesterday oh
here's another would you rather have
that mug of coffee or have to take a mug
shot you've probably guessed that I'm
going to talk about certain words that
make thousands of people confused and
annoyed and no wonder sometimes just a
vowel can entirely change the meaning of
the whole word so let's figure out
whether you dance samba or Samba number
one emojis versus emoticons did you get
the emoji I just sent you oh wait maybe
it was an emoticon easy peasy
emojis are real pictures they can be
faces animals and literally anything
from broccoli to a thunderstorm and
emoticons are faces you create by typing
different characters on your keyboard
number two shrimps versus prawns these
two critters have always been the cause
of endless confusion some people claim
that shrimp or a blown-up version of the
prawn others are sure that prawn is what
British people call American shrimp but
in fact prawns are way bigger and have
more cause than shrimp
number three silicon vs. silicon what
distinguishes these words is just one
letter but this letter makes a world of
difference solid and brittle silicon is
a chemical element with a pretty blue
grey metallic shine and silicon is a
substance where silicon atoms are mixed
with oxygen hydrogen carbon and what not
silicon is typically either rubber-like
or liquid and it's used in many
different spheres number four cement
versus concrete concrete is a strong
building material that's made up of
gravel sand and crushed stones all these
components are held together by a paste
which consists of water
surprise surprise special dry powder
also known as cement and while no
concrete can exist without cement these
two things are just not the same number
five mugs
versus cups mugs are thicker bigger and
made a cradle in your hands while you're
sitting on the windowsill and looking
out at the rain sorry as for cops
they're usually smaller and ain't here
people are supposed to drink coffee and
hot chocolate from mugs and tea from
cops but honestly it doesn't really
matter much these days
number six pills versus tablets the pill
is more a general term for medicines
presented in small round shapes as for
the tablet it's powdered herbs or
chemicals that are pressed together to
create a flat solid shape tablets are
mostly round although if you try you may
find lots of unusual forms let's say a
triangle number seven
versus Samba is a kind of
modern martial art that appeared in the
former Soviet Union the name stands for
self-defense without weapons and if you
want to move your body you can dance
Samba which is a fast vibrant dance from
Brazil number eight venomous versus
poisonous just remember two things if
some dangerous substance is forced into
your bloodstream its venom that's why we
call snakes venomous and to get poisoned
the person has to eat inhale or contact
something poisonous for example a
mushroom a berry or a chemical or that
red apple from the wicked witch number
nine jealousy versus envy how these two
emotions have caused countless conflicts
and broken zillions of relationships and
still some people mistake one for the
other
jealousy is when you have an ice cream
and are afraid that someone will take it
from you
as for envy you feel it when another
person is enjoying their ice cream on a
hot day but there's no cold treat for
you number 10 stalagtites vs.
stalagmites you'll be able to tell these
long pointed pieces of rock apart at
first sight if you remember this
stalagmites grow upward from the floor
of a cave and stalactites grow downward
from the ceiling of a cave or remember
it like this it takes mite to pull a
stalagmite up from the floor and you
better hold tight to a stalactite else
you might fall down once again
stalagmites up stalagtites down get it
got it good number 11
jam versus jelly this issue bothers
millions of people all over the world
what did I have for breakfast jam or
jelly well look at the sweet stuff in
front of you can you see pieces of fruit
and berries inside then it's Jam jelly
only contains juice and it's also more
translucent remember that and you'll get
out of this Jam every time number 12
macarons vs. macaroons people have been
arguing about the correct spelling of
these two desserts and their meaning for
ages but here's the most widely accepted
explanation a macaron is a kind of
cookie made from egg whites sugar and
almond powder it's also a French very
pretty and totally Instagram Abul and
macaroons come from Italy they're small
cookies made from ground almonds
coconuts and other nuts they're white on
the inside but toasted to look
beautifully golden man no problem I'll
eat them both
13 boats versus ships the difference
between these two kinds of nautical
transport is pretty apparent right and
still some people manage to mix these
terms and captain's get awfully offended
so let's clarify ships are big vessels
weighing more than 500 tons and sturdy
enough to sail the oceans at the same
time boats are way more compact and
breakable that's why they typically
stick closer to the shore or sail across
smaller bodies of water another way to
tell the difference you can put a boat
on a ship but not the other way around
otherwise you'll crush it number 14
America versus the US people may
misunderstand if you announce that
you're setting off on a journey to
America so don't be surprised if they
begin to ask for clarifications the
thing is that the name America means the
continents of North and South America
combined but if you're planning to see
the Grand Canyon and the lights of Las
Vegas tell your friends that you're
going to the United States of America or
the USA 15 Great Britain versus the UK
you'll be able to distinguish Great
Britain from the UK with ease if you
remember just one thing Great Britain is
one island but the United Kingdom also
includes the northeastern part of
Ireland as well as numerous small
islands sixteen mushrooms versus
toadstools you've brought quite a lot of
toadstools from your mushroom hunting
trip don't get your hopes up that's not
a compliment it's true that by saying
mushrooms people usually refer to an
edible type of fungi it means you can
munch on it without any risk of getting
ill toadstools are a different story
they are poisonous and some of these
fungi are quite dangerous so only eat
these for your last meal
17 Huskies versus melamine well these
two breeds get constantly mistaken for
each other a husky and a Malamute are
two very different dogs that come from
different parts of the world Huskies are
pooches from Siberia where they were
specifically bred to be fast they're
sleek kind and hard-working and often
have two different colored eyes as for
Malamute their alaskan dogs just as
lovely as huskies but a bit slower and
more massive number 18 alpacas versus
llamas come on both of these cuties have
fluffy faces long necks and four legs
how on earth am I supposed to tell them
apart it turns out there is a way first
of all look at the animals ears if
they're long and banana shaped that's a
llama alpacas have shorter spear shaped
ears also alpacas faces are blunt ER and
it gives them a slightly smooshed in
look these animals are also smaller than
llamas while the average alpaca weighs
about a hundred fifty pounds an adult
llama can be as heavy as four hundred
pounds and if you confuse the two in
front of the llama he might spit in your
face happened to me once
nineteen crocodiles versus alligators
imagine that one day you meet one of
these let's admit it quite terrifying
creatures and freeze and confusion is it
a crocodile or an alligator first of all
take a look at the animal snout
alligator snouts are wider and have an
apparent u-shape and crocodiles front
part is be shaped and pointed also if an
alligator's mouth is closed you'll never
see its teeth as for crocodiles no
matter if they keep their mouth shut or
not one tooth on each side of their
lower jaw will stick out anyway but the
most significant difference is that
crocodiles home base is saltwater
reserves and alligators hang out in
freshwater lakes and marshes frankly I
wouldn't even take the time to figure it
out I just run and sort it out later
20 Spinks vs. Spanx you can see the most
famous Sphinx in the world in Egypt on
the west bank of the Nile River it's a
mythical creature with a head of a human
and the body of a lion Sphinx in turn
has nothing to do with mysteries legends
and Mick's body parts
it's a breed of hairless cats velvety
and hot to the touch that appeared in
Ontario Canada in 1966 by the way yes
that was a tongue twister you try saying
famous sphinx a few times but later I'm
not done yet
crows vs. Ravens well I'm pretty sure
that one of these species safeguards the
Tower of London but if you showed me a
picture of a bird and asked if it was a
pro or a raven I wouldn't be able to
tell one from the other so here's the
tutorial crows are smaller with thinner
and longer beaks if you hear shrill
cawing that grates on your ears
that's a crow scientists also claimed
that the average crow is as smart as a
seven-year-old child as for Ravens
they're way larger than crows with
longer tails and thicker bills they
often travel in pairs and communicate
through low croaking sounds finally
here's a bonus Oreo versus Oreo
one is a famous yummy cookie and the
other is from The Wizard of Oz it's the
song the wicked witch's guards are
singing as they march around her castle
don't believe me check it out all right
how about you do you know any other
things people often confuse let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go off eating crow just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life